README.md, before:

# aicommit

A CLI tool to generate commit content.

## Table of Contents

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Notice](#notice)

## Prerequisites

The tool needs LLM support. You can use either Ollama or 零一万物.

### Ollama

1. Install [Ollama](https://ollama.com/) on your machine.
2. Pull the model that will be used to summarize commit content, for example: `ollama pull llama3`. The recommended models are:
   - [codegemma](https://ollama.com/library/codegemma)
   - [codeqwen](https://ollama.com/library/codeqwen)
   - [codellama](https://ollama.com/library/codellama)

### 零一万物

Obtain the API Key of 零一万物 from [here](https://platform.lingyiwanwu.com/apikeys).

## Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/stong1994/aicommit.git
cd aicommit
go mod tidy
go build -o aicommit main.go
```

To make the tool globally accessible:

```bash
export PATH=$PATH:$PWD # or move aicommit to the /usr/local/bin
```

## Usage

There are some arguments you can use:

- `platform`: the platform of llm, you can use ollama or lingyi
- `model`: the llma model you want to use, for example: codegemma, codeqwen, codellama (for ollma), yi-large (for lingyi)
- `quiet`: if true, aicommit will output the command directly, if false, the output will using be streaming
- `copy`: if true, aicommit will copy the command to clipboard.
  All the arguments can be set with environment:

```bash
export AICOMMIT_MODEL=codegemma
export AICOMMIT_PLATFORM=ollama
export AICOMMIT_QUIET=true
export AICOMMIT_COPY=true
```

To run the tool, cd to the git repository and execute `aicommit`.

## Notice

The tool uses `git diff --cached --diff-algorithm=minimal` to get the diff content, so make sure the output of `git diff --cached --diff-algorithm=minimal` is not empty.

Commit message:

docs: Update README and add Github Copilot support
- Updated README.md to include more detailed instructions and added a section for environment variables.

- Added support for Github Copilot in llms/github.go.

README.md, after:

# AICommit

AICommit is a CLI tool that generates commit content using various AI models.

## Table of Contents

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
- [Notice](#notice)

## Prerequisites

AICommit requires support from Language Learning Models (LLM). You can use either Ollama, 零一万物, or Github Copilot.

### Ollama

1. Install [Ollama](https://ollama.com/) on your machine.
2. Pull the model that will be used to summarize commit content, for example: `ollama pull llama3`. The recommended models are:
   - [codegemma](https://ollama.com/library/codegemma)
   - [codeqwen](https://ollama.com/library/codeqwen)
   - [codellama](https://ollama.com/library/codellama)

### 零一万物

Obtain the API Key of 零一万物 from [here](https://platform.lingyiwanwu.com/apikeys).

### Github Copilot

Ensure you are logged into Github Copilot. There should be a `host.json` in your config directory (e.g., `~/.config/github-copilot` on macOS), or you can specify the token with the `GITHUB_COPILOT_TOKEN` environment variable.

## Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/stong1994/aicommit.git
cd aicommit
go mod tidy
go build -o aicommit main.go
```

To make the tool globally accessible, add it to your PATH:

```bash
export PATH=$PATH:$PWD # or move aicommit to the /usr/local/bin
```

## Usage

Run the tool in the git repository with the `aicommit` command.

The tool accepts the following arguments:

- `platform`: The LLM platform to use. Options are 'ollama', 'lingyi', or 'github'.
- `model`: The LLM model to use. For example: 'codegemma', 'codeqwen', 'codellama' (for Ollama), 'yi-large' (for Lingyi), 'gpt-4' (for github copilot).
- `quiet`: If set to true, AICommit will output the command directly. If false, the output will be streamed.
- `copy`: If set to true, AICommit will copy the command to the clipboard.

## Environment Variables

All the arguments can also be set with environment variables:

```bash
export AICOMMIT_MODEL=codegemma
export AICOMMIT_PLATFORM=ollama
export AICOMMIT_QUIET=true
export AICOMMIT_COPY=true
```

## Notice

AICommit uses `git diff --cached --diff-algorithm=minimal` to get the diff content. Ensure the output of `git diff --cached --diff-algorithm=minimal` is not empty.
